JS SDK Revamp (#725)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/quick-start-guide.mdx

---
title: "Quickstart"
description: Step-by-step guide on installing and using the JavaScript SDK for your website.
aliases: ["JavaScript quickstart", "JavaScript SDK quickstart", "JS SDK quickstart"]
---

> This guide lists the browser versions supported by JavaScript SDK, steps to install and use the SDK to identify your website users and track their actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide lists the steps to quickly install and use the JavaScript SDK to identify your website users and track their actions.
```

Reviewer: IMO, we can move the "Supported browsers and versions" section before the SPA (single page apps) section, as the core focus of this guide is to quickly get up and running with the SDK. The info on supported browsers and SPAs is supplementary in this guide. Thoughts?

## Supported browsers and versions

> The JavaScript SDK is supported on the following browsers and their corresponding versions:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK supports the following browsers and their corresponding versions:
```

| Browser         | Supported Versions |
| :------------------ | :--------------------- |
| Safari              | v7 or later            |
| IE                  | v10 or later           |
| Edge                | v80 or later           |
| Mozilla Firefox     | v47 or later           |
| Chrome              | v54 or later           |
| Opera               | v43 or later           |

<div class="infoBlock">

> You can try adding the browser <Link to="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Polyfill">polyfills</Link> to your application if the SDK does not work on the browser versions you are targeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try adding the browser <Link to="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Polyfill">polyfills</Link> to your application if the SDK does not work on your browser.
```

Reviewer: Simplified the sentence as per Grammarly's suggestion.

</div>

## Step 1: Install JavaScript SDK 

### Using CDN

> To integrate the SDK with your website and load it **asynchronously**, add the following code in the `<head>` section of your website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate the SDK with your website and load it **asynchronously**, add the following code in your website's `<head>` section:
```

```javascript
<script type="text/javascript">
!function(){var e=window.rudderanalytics=window.rudderanalytics||[];e.methods=["load","page","track","identify","alias","group","ready","reset","getAnonymousId","setAnonymousId","getUserId","getUserTraits","getGroupId","getGroupTraits"],e.factory=function(t){return function(){var r=Array.prototype.slice.call(arguments);return r.unshift(t),e.push(r),e}};for(var t=0;t<e.methods.length;t++){var r=e.methods[t];e[r]=e.factory(r)}e.loadJS=function(e,t){var r=document.createElement("script");r.type="text/javascript",r.async=!0,r.src="https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js";var a=document.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];a.parentNode.insertBefore(r,a)},e.loadJS(),
e.load(WRITE_KEY,DATA_PLANE_URL),
e.page()}();
</script>
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> Replace the <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key">Write key</Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url">Data plane URL</Link> in the above snippet with actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key"><code class="inline-code">WRITE_KEY</code></Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url"><code class="inline-code">DATA_PLANE_URL</code></Link> in the above snippet with the actual values.
```

</div>

> To integrate the SDK with your website and load it **synchronously**, add any of the following script in the `<head>` section of your website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate the SDK with your website and load it **synchronously**, add any of the following scripts in your website's `<head>` section.
```

    })(method);
  }

  rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY,DATA_PLANE_URL);
  rudderanalytics.page();
</script>

<script src="https://cdn.rudderlabs.com/v1.1/rudder-analytics.min.js"></script>
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> There is an explicit <code class="inline-code">page</code> call at the end in all the above snippets. This is added to ensure that whenever the SDK loads in a page, a <code class="inline-code">page</code> call is sent. You can either remove this call or modify it with extra <code class="inline-code">page</code> properties as required. You can also add <code class="inline-code">page</code> calls in your application in places not tied directly to page load, for example, virtual page views, page renders on route change, such as in <Link to="#single-page-application">single-page applications</Link>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is an explicit <code class="inline-code">page</code> call at the end in all the above snippets. This is to ensure that a <code class="inline-code">page</code> call is sent whenever the SDK loads on a page. You can remove this call or modify it with any extra <code class="inline-code">page</code> properties. You can also add <code class="inline-code">page</code> calls in your application in places not tied directly to page load, for example, virtual page views and page renders on route change, such as in <Link to="#single-page-application">single-page applications</Link>.
```

</div>

### Using NPM 

> While it is recommended to use the above method to integrate the JavaScript SDK with your website, you can alternatively use the [NPM module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rudder-sdk-js) to package RudderStack directly into your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While it is recommended to use the above method to integrate the JavaScript SDK with your website, you can alternatively use the [NPM module](https://www.npmjs.com/package/rudder-sdk-js) for packaging RudderStack directly into your project.
```

> To install the JavaScript SDK via npm, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the JavaScript SDK via NPM, run the following command:
```

```bash
npm install rudder-sdk-js --save
```

<div class="warningBlock">

> This NPM module is only meant to be used for browser installation. To integrate RudderStack with a Node.js application, refer to the <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-sdk-node">RudderStack Node.js repository</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this NPM module only for browser installation. To integrate RudderStack with your Node.js apps, refer to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-node-sdk/">RudderStack Node.js SDK</Link> documentation.
```

Reviewer: Added link to the Node.js SDK documentation instead of the GitHub repo.

</div>

Since the NPM module exports the related APIs on an already-defined object combined with the Node.js module caching, you should run the following code snippet **once** and use the exported object throughout your project:

```jsx
import * as rudderanalytics from "rudder-sdk-js";
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL);
rudderanalytics.ready(() => {
  console.log("We are all set!!!");
});
export { rudderanalytics };
```

> Altrnatively, you can do this with **ES5** using the `require` method, as shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can do this with **ES5** using the `require` method, as shown:
```

```jsx
var rudderanalytics = require("rudder-sdk-js");
rudderanalytics.load(WRITE_KEY, DATA_PLANE_URL);
rudderanalytics.ready(() => {
  console.log("We are all set!!!");
});
exports.rudderanalytics = rudderanalytics;
```

<div class="infoBlock">

> Replace the <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key">Write key</Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url">Data plane URL</Link> in the above snippet with actual values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <Link to="/resources/glossary/#write-key"><code class="inline-code">WRITE_KEY</code></Link> and <Link to="/dashboard-guides/overview/#data-plane-url"><code class="inline-code">DATA_PLANE_URL</code></Link> in the above snippet with the actual values.
```

</div>

The related APIs exported by the module are `load`, `ready`, `identify`, `alias`, `page`, `track`, `group`, `reset`, `getAnonymousId`, `setAnonymousId`, `getUserId`, `getUserTraits`, `getGroupId`, and `getGroupTraits`.

<div class="infoBlock">
Refer to the sample <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-analytics-angular">Angular</a> and <a href="https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-analytics-react">React</a> projects for a detailed walkthrough of the above steps.
</div>

> The installation code snippets discussed above perform the following actions:

Reviewer: Are these actions performed in the exact same order? If so, can make this an ordered list.

Author: This is just an explanation of the installation script (tasks performed by it).
IMO, ordered steps would make sense if it's an action item on the user's end.

> - Creates an array to store the events until the `analytics` object is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create an array to store the events until the `analytics` object is ready.
```

Author: The installation script does it at the backend, it's not a user action.

> - Stores the following methods to replay them when the `analytics` object is ready:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Store the following methods to replay them when the `analytics` object is ready:
```

Author: same as above

| Method           | Description                                          |
| :--------------- | :--------------------------------------------------- |
| <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/load-js-sdk/#loading-javascript-sdk">`load()`</Link>     | Loads `analytics.js` with the specified write key. |

> | <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#track">`track()`</Link>   | Tracks user events along with the properties associated with them.          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#track">`track()`</Link>   | Tracks user events along with the associated properties.          |
```

> | <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#identify">`identify()`</Link> | Associates users and their traits or actions.        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#identify">`identify()`</Link> | Identifies the users, records their traits, and associates them with their actions.        |
```

> |<Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#alias">`alias()`</Link>    | Maps a new user ID with an old user.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|<Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#alias">`alias()`</Link>    | Maps a new user ID with an old ID.       |
```

> |<Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#group">`group()`</Link>    |  Link an identified user with a group such as a company, organization, or an account.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|<Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#group">`group()`</Link>    |  Links an identified user with a group such as a company, organization, or an account.       |
```

> | <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/quick-start-guide/#step-2-check-ready-state">`ready()`</Link>   | Takes a callback as a parameter that fires when the SDK is done initializing itself and the other third-party native SDK destinations.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/quick-start-guide/#step-2-check-ready-state">`ready()`</Link>   | Fired when the SDK has initialized itself and the other third-party native SDK destinations.       |
```

Reviewer: Trimmed the definition as we add a link to read the details anyway.

> |<Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#reset">`reset()`</Link>    | Resets the `userid` and the associated traits.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|<Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#reset">`reset()`</Link>    | Resets the information related to the previously identified user.       |
```

|`getAnonymousId`   |  Fetches the current `anonymousId`.       |
|`setAnonymousId`   | Sets the `anonymousId`.       |
| `getUserId`   | Fetches the current `userId`.      |
|`getUserTraits` |  Fetches the current user traits.       |
| `getGroupId`    | Fetches the current `groupId`.       |
| `getGroupTraits`  | Fetches the current group traits.       |

- Loads the analytics object with the specified write key.

> - Makes a `page()`call to track the page views. It captures the whole URL including the UTM parameters as part of the page call payload, such as `path`, `referrer`, `search`, `title`, and `URL`. Refer to the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/page/#properties">`page`</Link> method to override these properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Makes a `page()`call to track the page views. It captures the whole URL including the UTM parameters as part of the `page` call payload, such as `path`, `referrer`, `search`, `title`, and `URL`. Refer to the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/page/#properties">`page`</Link> method to override these properties.
```

## Step 2: Check ready state

> The JavaScript SDK provides `ready` API with a `callback` parameter that triggers when the SDK is done initializing itself and the other third-party native SDK destinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK provides the `ready` API with a `callback` parameter that triggers when the SDK is done initializing itself and the other third-party native SDK destinations.
```

An example is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.ready(() => {
    console.log("All set!");
});
```

## Step 3: Identify users

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> method lets you identify a user and associate them to their actions. It also lets you record any traits about them like their name, email, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/identify/">`identify`</Link> method lets you identify a user and associate them with their actions. It also enables you to record any traits about them like their name, email, etc.
```

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify(
    "1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
        firstName: "Alex",
        lastName: "Keener",
        email: "alex@example.com",
        phone: "+1-202-555-0146"
    }, {
        page: {
            path: "/best-seller/1",
            referrer: "https://www.google.com/search?q=estore+bestseller",
            search: "estore bestseller",
            title: "The best sellers offered by EStore",
            url: "https://www.estore.com/best-seller/1"
        }
    },
    () => {
        console.log("identify call");
    }
);
```

> The JavaScript SDK captures the `userId`, `email` and <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/common-fields/#contextual-fields">contextual information</Link> from the above snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK captures the `userId`, `email` and the <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/common-fields/#contextual-fields">contextual information</Link> from the above snippet.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
The anonymous visitors are automatically assigned an <code class="inline-code">anonymousId</code>. Refer to the <Link to="/sources/sdks/rudderstack-javascript-sdk/supported-api/#anonymous-id">Anonymous ID</Link> section for more information.
</div>

## Step 4: Track user actions

> The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track/"><code class="inline-code">track</code></Link> method lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <Link to="/event-spec/standard-events/track/"><code class="inline-code">track</code></Link> method lets you capture user events along with the associated properties.
```

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(
    "Order Completed", {
        revenue: 77.6,
        currency: "USD",
        user_actual_id: 1 hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm,
    },
    () => {
        console.log("track call");
    }
);
```

> The JavaScript SDK captures the `Order Completed` event along with `revenue`, `currency`, and `anonymousId` from the above snippet.

Reviewer: Not sure if `anonymousId` is the same as `user_actual_id`. We should confirm once with engg.

Author: @MoumitaM can you please confirm

Reviewer 2: `user_actual_id` is just a sample property in the example. It has no relation to the `anonymousId`. As anonymous ID is automatically captured, we may have phrased the above statement that way. We can remove that property from the example to avoid confusion.

> You can use this method to track various success metrics for your website like user signups, item purchases, article bookmarks, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="successBlock">
You can also use the <code class="inline-code">track</code> method to track various success metrics for your website like user signups, item purchases, article bookmarks, and more.
```

## Single-page application

> The JavaScript SDK makes a `page` call after its initialization (explicitly called at the end of the installation script). However, in case of a single-page application (SPA) where the page is not reloaded for every route change, you need to make the `page` call explicitly after the route change on the frontend. Refer to the example <Link to="/user-guides/how-to-guides/rudderstack-jamstack-integration/rudderstack-nextjs-integration/#method-2-installing-and-configuring-the-javascript-sdk-using-npm-package-in-your-nextjs-app">steps here</Link>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript SDK makes a `page` call after its initialization (explicitly called at the end of the installation script). However, in the case of a single-page application (SPA) where a route change does not reload the page, you need to make the `page` call explicitly after the route change on the frontend. For more information, refer to the <Link to="/user-guides/how-to-guides/rudderstack-jamstack-integration/rudderstack-nextjs-integration/#method-2-installing-and-configuring-the-javascript-sdk-using-npm-package-in-your-nextjs-app">RudderStack-Next.js Integration</Link> guide.
```

Reviewer: Added explicit reference to the guide.
